In the year 2330, almost 2,000 years ago humanity invented warp drives capable of traveling faster than light by riding a wave of spacetime towards their destination. While the technology is far outdated by more modern blink drives or translation drives it was instrumental in the expansion of humanity across the stars.

Thus began the Age of Expansion. The next thousand years saw hundreds more colonization missions sent. It was slow going, some missions failed before they reached their target planets, some found their target planets entirely inhospitable, some fell to infighting, mechanical failure, natural disasters, or any of a thousand small, but crucial system failures. The planets settled took another few hundred years before they were sufficiently terraformed to support permanent settlements.

In the end humans settled in four different systems: Sol (0.0 ly), Kepler 186f (492 ly), Tau Ceti (11.9 ly), and Gliese 667 (23.6 ly). Since then numerous expeditions have been sent without the express purpose of colonization, but merely exploration and tagging then leaving Blink Buoys behind for future travel.

Historians and politicians insist that the Second Age of Expansion is on us, but the general populace doesn't see the reason for public spending on human expansion, corporations are choosing to participate, however, leading to interesting arguments about jurisdiction, ownership, and the rights of colonists.

As far as the sprint traders are concerned, politicians can argue with businessmen  until doomsday... as long as the shipping lanes stay open. The traders are a new merchant class that has grown up around what is colloquially known as the War of Red Tape - governments and businesses both attempt to regulate trade and gain control of new planets and systems found.

The Sprint Traders avoid pirates, government, and corporations alike to deliver their goods. They are mercenaries hired for their cunning and reputation for discrete, quick delivery. When all is said and done it's a good living, if you can survive it.